# Where are consumer services distributed?

## Central place theor

- Central place theory: helps to explain how most profitable lcoation can be identified

### market area of a services

- central place: market exchange of goods and services by people attracted fro the surrounding area. 
- market area / hinterland: area surrounding a service from which consumers are attracted. (nodal region)

The territory inside the circle is its market area. THis represents the market areas in place theory, geographers draw hexagons around settlements, squares etc.. Because most people prefer to get services from the nearest lcoatin, consumer near the center of the circle obtain servies from local est. where people on the circumsfernce of the mat area circle are equaly likely to use the services or go elsewhere.

### Range of services

- range: maximum dstnace of people are willing to travel to use a service

Peopel are willing to go only a short distance for everyday consumer services, but people will travel logner ditsance sfor other services. Convenience store has a smaller range, whereas a stadium has a large range. As a rule, people tend to go to the nearest avaliable service. The range must be modified further because most peopel think distance in terms of time rather in terms of a linear measure such as measurement systems.

### Threshold of a service

- threshold: minimum number of people needed to supprot the service.

These include the ammount of custmoers to make nough sales to make a profit so once the range has been determined, service profiver must determine where a lcoation is suitable by counting the potential customers inside the irregularly shaped circle. Census data may help.

## Hierarchy of consumer service

### Nesting of services

different place has to be accoutn fo different srvices where. Little settlemtns provide sonsumer srives that have larger thresholds. These thresholds has to be met for these nesting places to be included. Business in entral plae compete against each otehr to serve as markets for goods and services for the surrounding region According to cetnral place theory, this competing the interior of the Uited States, a regular pattern of settlements can be observed

### Rank-zie distribution

- Rank-size rule: coutnry nth-largest settlemtns is 1/n the population of the largest settlement
- primate city rule: largest settlemtn has more than twice as many people as the country's largest city is called the primate city. 
- 

The rank-size distrubition plotted on lograthic paper, the rank size distrubiotn forms a fairly straight line. In the United States the distribution of settlemtns colsely follows the rank size rule.

## Market size analysis

- gravity model predicts the optimal lcoation of a ervice in a ara inversly related ot the distance must travel to aaccess it

1. The greater numer of people livingi n a location. The greater number of customers and profits
2. The further people are from a service, less likely to use it.

## Peroidic markets

Periodic market provides goods to residents of developing countires, as wel as rral areas in devleoped country, where sparce opulation and low incomes produce pruchasing power and low incomes prouce purchasing power too low to supprot fulltime retailing. A peroidc market makes serviecs available in more villages than would otherwise be possible, at least on the part time basis.


