# Where are businesses serviecs distrubited

## Hierarchy of Business services

### Busniess services in global cities

- Finaicial insitutions: centers of finacne and city of headquarters of the major banks
- headquarters of large corportaions: shares of corporations and sold on the stockmaket exchagnes
- Lawyers, accoutnants and otehr professional services: provides and advise major corpos.
- Econoic factors: number of headquaters for multinational corporations
- Poltiical factors: hosting headquaters for itnernational organizations and captiols of countries that h=play a leading role in international events.
- Cultural factors: coltural insituions influential media outlets
- infrastructure factors: tech, healthare and advanced communcation services
- Communication: telegraphc and phone, now the internet and network acces
- transportations: railroals, motor vehicles and airplanes


### consumer and public servies in global cities

Leasure services are more liely to happen. Global cities may be centers of national and international political power. Unlike global cities, Newowrk is not a national capitol, but as a home of the world's major internatinal organization, the Untid nations, th attracts thousands of diplomats nad bureaucrats as well as employees of orgnizations with business at the United nations.

## Business services in develping countires

### offshore finanical services

- Taxes: taxes on income, profits and capitol gains are typicall low and nonexistant. dependent heavily on locaiton
- privacy: banks secercy laws can help busniesses avoid disclouers and hiden from media from certain coutnries

### Business-process outsourcing

- Low wages: cheep wages from outside o the countries.
- Ability to speak inglush: many f dvelvong offer lower wages than develoepd, but only a few can speak in English

This is very evident in Asia.

## Econoimc Specialization

### Econoim base

- basic busniess eports priarly to customers outside of the settlemtn
- non basic serves primarly customers livnign inside the same settlemtn
- economic ase: settlemtn ecnoic base is important because exporiting by the baic businesses brings more money into the local economicm thus stimulating the provision of more nonbasic servces fr the settlement

### Distribution of talent

To some extent, talented indivuduals are attacted to cities iwth most jobs, and finalcal seces. But this princple enticement for talent individuals is cultural rather than economic
