# Where Did Agriculture Originate?

Agriculture: Delibrate modification of Earth's Surface thorugh cultivation of plants
Crop: Any plant cultivated by people.

## Indroducing Food and Agriculture

Agriculture cannot be documented with certaintiy because it begin bfore recorded history.

### Invention of Agricluture

Agriculture revolution was the time when the human beings first dmoesticated platns and animals and no longer relied entirely on hunting and gathering.

- Environmental factors: Little ice age and redistricution of humans and other animals and platns
- Cultural factors: preference for living and fixed place compared to nomadic. 

### Agriculture hearths

- Southwest Asia: Earliest domesticated crops, around 10,000 years ago
- East Asia: Rice Domestication, 10,000
- Central and South Asia: Chickens, etc
- Sub-Saharan Africa: Domestication of Sorghum, 8,000 
- Latin America: Maize and Corn etc

## Subsitence and Commerical Agriculture

Subsistence agriculture: consumption by farmers family
Commercial agricluture: consumption for sale

### Percent of farmers

3% of workers are directly in farming compared to 40%+ in developing countries. Northern America have a lot less comapred to others

### Role of Machinery, Science, and Technology

- Today Farmers used tractors, combines, crn pickers, platners and other factory made frams machiens to increase productivity.
- Experiments are also conducted to help new hybrid platns, herbicides, and animal breeds

### Farm Size

- Farm size is large in commerical agriculture comapred to the smaller.
- Heavly depends on mechanization 
- Commercial agriculture is increasing dominated by handful of larger farms, compared to smaller farms