# Where is agriculture distributed

## Agricutural regions and climate

- Division between southeastern China, intensive subsistenence agriculture and northeastern china with intensive subsistence agriculture
- united states, much of the west is distinguisted from the rest of the country according to climate. Thus, agrictulrue varies between the drylands and the tropics within developing countires as well as between the drylands of developing and developed countries
- Differences in cultural preferences and levels of development also explain agriclutural differences in areas of similar climate

## Subsistence Agriculture in Dry Regions

- Five agricultural regions that predominate in developing countires are: 
    - Intensive Subsistence, Wet-rice dominant: large population concentrations of East asia and South asia
    - Intensive Subsistence, Crops other than rice dominant: Large population concentrations of east asia and south asia
    - Pastoral Nomadism: Drylands of Southwst Asia, north africa and central asia and east asia
    - Shifting Cultivation: tropical regions of latin ameria subsaharan Africa and southeast asia
    - Plantation: form of commercial agricuture found in tropical subtropical devloping coutnires of latin america etc.
- Six agricultural regions that predominate in developed countires are:
    - Mixed crop and livestock: US midwest and central europe
    - Dairying: Near population clusters in northeastern united states, southeastern canada, and northwestern europe
    - Grain: Northcentral united stees, south central canada
    - Ranching: drylands of western north america
    - Mediterranean: land surrounding the mediterranean sea, western untied stetes etc
    - commerical gardening: southeastern untied sttes and southeastern australia

### Hunterers and gatherers 

Predmoiante group before the Agriculture revlution. now less than 0.005% are practicing this idea

#### Pastoral nomadism

Pastoral nomadism is form of substence agriculture based on herding of dmoesticaed animals in dry climates.  Choices depends on relative percentage of animals and ability to adpot in particular climate.

- Camels are well suited in arid cliates
- Goats need more water, tough and agile
- sheep are slow moving, require more water, more selective.

Transhumance: seasonal migration of livestok between mountains and lowland pasture areas.

## Subsistence agricutlure in tropical regions

Shifting cultivation: pracfticed in troical regions, cliamte regions, relative high temps, abundent rainfall

Plantation: most prominent in these regions.

### Shufting cultavation

Slash-and-burn agricutlure: clear land for plating by slashing vegation and buring debries

Swidden: Cleared areas prepared by hand the only fertilizers generally avaliable is potash from burning, these are good for the envirionment and soil.

#### Crops of shifting cultivation

Grown by each vilalge vary by local customs and tastes. Most families only grow for their own needs, so no one swidden may contain large varity of intermingled crops. trade with villagers who have a surplus of others

#### Ownership and use of land in shifting ultivation

Shifting cultivation occupies approx. 1/4th of world's land area, higher percentage than any other types of agriculture. 

#### Future of shifting cultivation 

To critics, shifting cultivation is at best preliminary step in econmic development. Large-scale destrictuion of rain forests may also contribute to global warming. This main critism is Global Warming.

### Plantation farming

Unitil the civil war, plnataions were important in us south. These types of farming are mostly seem as exploitative. 

## Subsistence agricuture in population concentrations

intensive subsistence agricluture: majority of developing countires used this form of agriculture

### Characteristics of intensive subsistance farming

Doubling Cropping: Two harvets per year from one field

Inteisve subsistance agriculture involves careful agricutlure practices reined over thousands of years in response to local environmental and cultural patterns. Typical patters can be seen in asia and many other places in the world.

### Wet-rice dominant

The intensive agricluture reion of asia can be divided between area where wet rice dominantes and areas where it bdoes not. Wet rice refers to rice pnated on dryland in a nursery and then moved as seedlings to a flooded field to promote growth. Intensive wetrice farming is dmoininant type of agricluture in southeastern china, east india, and much of southeast asia. 

### Wet-rice non dominant 

Skilled use of crop rotation, practice of rotation use of differnet soil. These are able to work in most other climates.


## Fishing

Fishing: capture of wild fish
Aquaculture: cultivation of seafood under controlled conditions

### Fish production

Divided ionto 18 major fishing regions. DUring past centuyry, global fish production has incrased from approx. 36 => 158 mil. Growth resulted entirely from expansive from cluture. 

### Fish consumption

Incrased more rapidly than populatin growth. Human consumption of fish and seafoof has increased by isnane ammoutn of metric ctons. Developing countires are responsible for a majority of the increase

### Overfishing 

Populations of some fish species in the oceans and leakes have declined due to overfishing. Which is capturing fish faster than they can reproduce. However, the populations of some fish epecies declined because of overfishing.

## Commercial Agriculture: crop based

Agribusniess: system of commercial farming found in developed countries

### Grain farming

Major crop in most frams is grain Commercial grains framers sell their output to manufactures. As has been the case with milk production, the share of world production of wheat devleoping countries has increased rapidly. Commerical grain farms are generally lcated in regions that are too dry for mixed crop and livestock agriculture. 

### Mediterranean Agriculture

Mediterranean agriclutuer exitst primarly on the lands of border the Mediterrean sea in southern europe. These mediterrean areas have simliar physical environment. Most crops in mediterrean lands are grown for human consumption rather tha nanimal feed

Horitculture which is the growing of fruits, and other veges.

### Commercial gardening and frut farming

This type of agricutlure is frequently called truck farming. Truck farms grow may of the fruits and vegetables that consumers in delvoped contruies demand. form of truck farming called specitla spread to new englaind. 

## Commerical agriculture

### Mixed crop and livestock

Mixed crop and livestick is the intergration of crops and livestock. A typical mixed crop and living stock farm devotes nearly all land area to growing crops but derives more than a majorit of incomes from sale of animal products. mixed crops nad livestock permits farmers to distribute worklaod evenly thoughout year

### Improtance of access to markets
Von Thunen based his general model of the spatial arrangement of different crops on his expireence as the owner of large estate in northern gemeary during the early 19th c. 

- First ring: marked oriented garnds and milk, Expensive to deliver and ust reach market quickly becuase perishable
- Second ring: next ring out of the cities contained wood lots, wher timer was cut for constructino and fuel.
- Third Ring: The next ring was used for various crops and for pasture; the specific comodity is rotated from one yar to next.
- Fourth ring. the outermost rin was devoted exclusivly to animal grazing, which requires lots of space.

## Commerical agriclutlure animal based

### Dairy

farm specalizes in the production of milk and other daily products. becuase milk is highly perishable its at ring 1. This is very laber intensive. and very winterfeed. 

### Livestock ranching

Ranching is the commerical grazing of livstock over an extensive area. Untied states is leadig production of chicken and beef, etc.