# Why do farmers face sustability challenges

## Losing agriclutlural land

### Loss of farmland to urbanization

Prime agricultral land: the loss of these lands are agttributed towards urbaniation. Some of the most threatened agricutural land lies in maryland. To identify the best lands to protect, GIS is collected.

### Desertification

Semi arid land that is loss to land becoming a desert like conditions

## Improving agricultural productivity

### Intensification by subsistence farmers
Land is left fallow for shorter peroids. this expands ammount of land area devopted to growing crops at any given time.

1. Forest fallow. 
2. Bush Fallow
3. Short fallow
4. Annual Cropping
5. Multi-cropping: fields are uesd several times a year and nevfer fallow

### Green revolution

Invention of rapid diffusion of more productive agricutlural techniques during 1970 and 80s. New marical seeds were diffused rapidly around the world. to take full advantge of new miarctle seeds, new farmers used more fertlizers and machinary. Farmers need tractors , irrigation pumps and other machinary to make the most effectiv use f the new miracle seeds.

### Incraed roductivity

Expirence of dairy farming in the united states demonstrate the growth in productivity

## Appolying biotechnology to agriulture

### GMO 
GMO is living organizm that posses geneticaly modified to survivie better. Despite the benefits to farming, some dislike this because of: 

- Health problems, consuming large quantities of geneically modified foods may reduce the effectivness of antibiotics.
- Export problems, labeling and other tarrifs 
- incrfeased dependence on the US, and the US don't like that 

## global agricultre underunishmets

### Glboal scale: supply and demand, 

Record high food prices are due to poor wether, higher deamand, smaller growth and use of crops as biofuels. 

### undernourishment 
is a dietary energy cnsumption that is continulsy below the need fr halthylife and carrying out light physcial activity the UN estimates.

The world as a hwole has made progress recuding hunger during the 21th C. where the # of peopel declined. `

## Sustainable agricutlure

### Organic farming

Organic farming is sensitive to complexities as biologlical and econimci intedependencies between crops and arid livestick. In organic farming, crops are grwon without application of herbicies and pestices to control weeds. GMO is not used. In organic farming, animal consume crops grown on the farm are not confined to small pens.

### How clean is our produce

Pesticiedes linger on produce even if washed or lealed. The enviornemtal working group publishes the finding anually, wher the 12 are most reporeted. 

### Govenment policies

- Farmers are econurged to prodice grops in excess
- Governmnet pays farmers when cerain commodity prices are low.
- government buys surpose in prduction and sells or donate it to foregin governments.

United states averaged 20 BIL a year on farm subsidies in recent years. Farming in europe in europe is ubsidied even ore than the united states.
Procude in prodcing food for domestic consumption. 