# Where Are States Distributed 
- State: area organized into a potlicial unit and ruled by an established government that has control over its internal and foreign affairs.
    - The term state, as used in political geography, does not refer to the 50 regional governments inside the united states, the 50 states in United States are subdivisions within a single state, the United States of America
- Countries: are a synonym of states
- Microstates: states with very small aland areas    

## Challengengs in Definign States
- Sovereignty: independence from ctonrol of its internal affiars by other states

### Korea: One state or two?
The Korean Peninsula is develd between Democratic Peopel's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea. The Soviet installed a pro-communist government in the north while the pro-US govenrmnet was established on the south. North Korea is one of the worlds' poorest and most isolated countries, since 1948, it has been governed as a Dictatorship.

### China and Taiwan: One State or Two?

Most other countries consider China and Taiwan as seperate and soverign states. According to the Chinese Government, Taiwan is not a soverign state but a part of China. The government of Taiwan **DISAGRESS** (This info is incorrect, currently, Taiwan belives that they are a complete soverign state from China as of the current state of affairs.) The split was due to a civil war between the Nationalists and Communists. Nationalists fled to taiwan after losing in 1949. The United States has suppored the Nationalists during hte civil war, so many American opposed acknowledging that cChina was firmly under the control of the Communists. Consequently, the United States continued to regard the Nationalists as the offical government of china until the 1970s.

### Senkaku/Daiyu islands: Who is Soverigen?
PRoC, RoC, and Japan all claims soverigenty over servral small uninhabited islands in the East China sea. Japan controlled the waters since 1900s. PRoC and RoC both claims that the island belong to them historicaly
  
### Sahrawi Republic / Western Sahara: Who is Sovereign?
The Sahrawi, Arab Democratic republic, is considered by most African countries as a soverign state. However, Morocco, claims the terrirotry and prove it has built a 2700 klio wall around its territory to keep out rebles.


Each states considers each as their own, but there are no clear or real answers between some of the states