# Why are Nation-States Difficult to create?

## Development of States

### Ancient States
- City-State is a sovereign state that comprises a town and the surrounding countryside. Walls clearly delienated the boundaries of the city, and outside the walls.

Periodically, one city or tribe in Mesopotamia would gain military dominance over the others and form an empire. Mesopotamia was orgnaized int oa succession of empires by many different states

### Medieval States
After the collapse of Roman Empire, European nations were fragmented into larger number of estates owned by high nobility and royalty.


### States in Twentieth-Century Europe
Into the twentieth century, most of Europe's territory was ruled by a handful of empires, kings, queens. After WWI, leaders of victorious countries met to discuss land distribution. The goal was to divide Europe into nation-states. This resulted into some states being disolved by some created as well.


## Nation-States and Multinational States
- Self-Determination: Ethnicity have the right to govern themselves.

### Multiethnic and Multinational States
- Multiethnic State: States containing 1+ ethnicity
- Multinational State: State that contains more than one ethnicity with traditions of self-determination and self-government.

In some multinational states, ethnics coexist in peace while remaining cultural distinct. Each ethnic group respects and recognizes one n another

### Multiethnic Revival in Europe
After WWII, there are a mass migration of ethnic populations that were distrusted into many nations-sates. With the end of communism, german democratic republic ceased to exist and its territory became part of the German Federal Republic. 

Europeans thought that ethnicity had been left behind as an insignificant relic. Karl Marx argues that people should identify with each other as their work instead of their ethicizes. Currently it is a blend of both in the United States.

## Russia: The Largest Multiethnic State

### Russia: The largest multinational state
After the break up of USSR in 1991, it created 15 different states and nations based on 5 different groups:

    - Russia
    - Three Baltic states: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania
    - Three European States: Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine
    - Five Central Asian States: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan. 
    - Three Caucasus States: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia

### Russians in Ukraine
After  1991, the Crimea region became what is known as now today as Ukraine. Ethnic Russians supported the action. Nearly every other country in the world now recognize Ukraine's sovereignty. However international communities has not found a way to remove Russians and restore Crimea to Ukraine.

## Nation-States in the Former Soviet Union

### Three European States
Belarus made peaceful transition from Soviet Republic to independent nation-state. But Ukraine and Moldova has experienced ethnic tensions that in the case of ukraine have led to open warfare. 

#### Belarus and Ukraine
The ethnic distinction among Belarusian, Ukrainians, and Russians is somewhat blurred. There are no real distinction between them. Belarusian and Ukraine has became distinct ethicizes from Russians after they were isolated from each other after invasions and conquests by Mongolians, Poles, and Lithuanians beginning in the 13th century.

#### Moldova 
Moldovan are ethnically indistinguishable from romanians. The soviet government incare size of moldova by about 10 percent, transferring from Ukraine, a 3000sqkm land from Ukraine. The majority of the inhabitants of this areas, are Ukrainian and Russian.

### Three Baltic CaucasusL Many ethicizes
 The breakup of Soviet Union resulted in the creation of the three small seas. They have fought over democratic boundaries between the two ethnic groups. Georgia is a multinational state experiencing uprisings and indecent movements by several of its ethnic groups

#### Armenia
Armenians comprises 98 percent of population in Armenia, making it the most ethnically homogenous country in that region

#### Azerbaijan  
Armenians and Azerbaijan went to war over boundaries. After the 1994 cease fire, Nagano-Kaaba is technically part of Azerbaijan

#### Georgia
The population of georgia is more diverse than that in Armenia and Azerbaijan. Ethnic georgians comprise 71%.

### Central Asian states
They ae general more peaceful expect the conflicts between Uzbeks and Kyrgyz where in 2010s there are a series of violence and ethnic cleansing

## Colonies
- Colony: territory that is legally tied to a sovereign state.

### Distribution of colonies
UN list does not include territories that are uninhabited. For example, the UN does not classify these territories as conies:

    - Puerto Rico: common wealth of US, but does not participate in US elections or have a voting member in congress
    - Greenland: Aton unit of Kingdom of Demark runs its internal affairs but does not maintain dense 
    - hongkong and macao: similar autonomy in economic matters, but china controls foreign affairs and defense. 

### Colonialism 
- colonialism: effort by one country to establish settlements in a territory and to impose its political economic or cultural principles on the territory.

European states established colonies elsewhere in the world for three basic reasons: God, gold, and Glory (BOOK ERROR: "Gold, gold, and glory")