# Why do boudnaries cause problems?
- boundary: invisble line that marks the extent of state's terriotry, completely surround an invidial state to mark the outer limits of terriotrial control and give distinct shappe 
- frontier: zone where no states exercises compeltely political control

Boundaries are three different types:

  - Cultural boundaires: distribution of cutlural features
  - Geometric boundaries: based on human constructs, such as straight lines
  - physical boundaries: coinscide wiith significant features of the natural landscape


## Cultural Boudnaries

### Religous boundary: ireland
Religon was used to some extent to draw the boundaries between two states on the iland of Eire (Ireland). Language is an important cultural characteristic for drawing boundaries, especially in Europe. 

### Ethnic Boundary: Cyprus 
Consitution guaranteed the Turkish minorituy a substaintial share of elected offices and contorl over its EDU, religion, and cuture. But this never succeeded. The wall constructed between two states suves as a bufferezone in order to prevent further ethnic conflict. Modernly, This has been done better and withotu any issues

## Geometric Boundaries

### Geometric Boundaries: North America
US-Canada Boundary was estalbished through the treaties that used a 54deg40' north latitude to draw a straight geometric line through the reigon.

### Geometric boundary: North Africa
Boudnaries between Algeria, Egypt, Libya, and north of Mali, Njier, Chad, and Sudan, have many areas where the lines are compeltely straight. It is due to the European control over the regions of Africa. However, this had led to more conflicts between the people and the world.

### Geometric boundary: South Pole
The South Pole region contains a large landmass on earth's urface that are not aprt of a state. Seven states claim protions of the south pole. There claims are devided geometrically. South Pole region has not offered a useful precedent for setting claims in the northern reigonO

## Physical Boundaries

### Desert Boudnaries
Like the Sahara desert is a physical land boundary because of its harsh land conditions. 

### Mountain boundaries
Mountains that are difficult to cross careates a good physical boundary. However, due to wording and human error wtih the preditions of the world. it may change overtime.

### Water boundaries
lake, rivers, oceans, are commo. It creates a pathway of transprot and protection. States being invaded can concentrate its control over the landing point. This allows for better control over their position. 

### The Law of the Sea
Three Types of Water Boundaries:
    - Territorial Waters: 12 naut mi from state reguar passage 
    - Contiguous zone: enforce laws concerning pollution, taxation, customs, and immigration
    - Exclusive Econimc Zone: 200 naut mi, state has sole right to be the fish and marine life.

## Shapes of States
Countires have five basic shapes- compact, elongated, prorupted, fragmented, or perforated. 

### Compact States: efficient
- Compact State: the distance from center to any boundary does not vary significantly. Ideal shape: Circle

Compactness can be benefitical to smaller states because of communcaitions. However, compact nations does not neccessaryly mean peacefulness, as compact states are just as likely as others to experience civil wars and ethnic rivalries.

### Elongatged States: Potential Isolation
- Elongated State: has long and narrow shape. 

Elongated States may suffer from poor internal communcations. Regon located at an extreme end of the elongated might be isolated from the capitol, which is usally placed near the center.

### Prorupted States: Access or Disruption
- Prorupted State: compact state with large projecting extensions.

Some countries have to use this to get access to an resource.

### Perforated States: South Africa
- perforated states: state that surroudns antoher one.

The state that is surrounded may face problems of dependence on, or interference from the surrounding states. (Like a Siege)

### Fragmented States: Problematic
- Fragmented state: includes several discontinous pieces of territory. 

Technically, all states that have offshore islands as part of theit erritory are fragmented. However, fragmentation is particually signifncat for some ates. Fragmented states seperated by an intervening state can cause issues iwth culture and wars. 

### Landlocked States
- Landlocked State: Lacks Direct outlet to a ea beacuse it is compeltely surrounded by several other countires

This is a major issues for these states because it does limits their traiding ability for bulk goods, and bulky goods that require water-transport.


## Governing States

### National Scale: Regime Types
- Democracy: country in which citizens elect leaders and can run for office
- Autocracy: country that is run according to the interest of the ruler rather than the people
- anocracy: is a country that is not fully democratic or fully autocratic,  but displays mixxed of the two types

Majority of the world is now democratic due to the diffuseion of democratic ideals. the SFI calculates the Center for systematic peace and the Democratic nations generally comes out on top comapred ot other nations. Modern day there are a lot more democratic nations. 

### Local Scale: Unitary and Federal States
- Unitary state: places power in the hands of the central government offices
- federal state: allocates strong power to unites of local government within a country

#### Unitary states
In principle, it works the best in nation-state characterized by a few internal cultural difference sand a trong sense of national unity. But this requries a strong effectivness in commncations and lesser room for human error or change. EX. France

#### Federal States
Most of the world's largest states are federal, this is because it works better with larger landmasses and allows for local control of what they need comapred to the lack of communcations that some might recieve from the govenrment.

## Electoral Geography
- Gerrymandering:
  - Wasted vote: oppsition supporters are spread across many distrcits but in the mionority 
  - Excess votes: oppsition are concentrated in a single district
  - Stacked votes: distant areas of lke-mineded voertsrare linked thorugh odly shaped boundaries (Austin and San Antonio)

This is just ap gov atp

## Geography of Geryamndering
Gerrmandering socre was demted by the ratio of areas of the district that follows a weirder / odd shape. comapred to a regular spae with same perimieter of people and land.