# Where do sates face threats?

## Global cooperation and competition

### The united Nations
- 1995: sizteen countries joined, mostly countires that have been librated from Nazi Germany after WWII
- 1960: 17 new countries joined, mostly countries of Europe, had some African nations join aswell
- 1990 - 1993: 26 were added, response to Soviet Union breakup

One occation, UN conviend in conflicts between or within member states, authorizing millitary and peacekeeping actions. However, any one of the five permant member s of the Security Consil--China, France, Russia, UK, USA -- can veto peacekeeping oepration. This happened during the cold war where USA intervened with USSR's control over the War

### The Colrd War
- balance of power: condition of rougly equal strength between opposing allaience. 
 
Both superpowers repeatel demonstrated that they would use millitary force if neccessary t prevent an allay from becoming too independent. The soviet union sent its armies into hungary in 1956 and czechovolosvakia in 1968 to install more smpathtic govenrments.

#### Cuban Missile Crisis
Major confrontation during the cold war between US and Soviet Union in 1962,. almost caused a war. The soviet union ended the crisis by dismantling missiles. 

## Competiton and copporation in europe

### COld war-era Millitary allaiences
- North Alantic Treaty Organization (NATO): Millitary allaience amound 16 dem states, USA and Canada inc.
- Warsaw Pact: millitary agreement among communist eastern europeans countries. disbanned after collapse of USSR.

In Europe no longer dominated by milltary confrontations between two blocs, Warsaw Pact was disbaneded and the number of troops under NATO command wasd sharply reduced. NATO extended its memberships to 29 states by adding former Warsaw Pact countires and several states.

### Cold war-era Economic Alliaences
- European Union (EU): Designed to heal scars from WWII 
- Consil for Mutal Economic Assistance (COMECON): Formed of the Communists, similar goals to the EU

main tasks of the EU is to be placed ald elected by he people in each of the member state simultaneously. Subsidies are provided. good sare supproted. With permission, some may immigrate as well.

### Allaiences in other Region
- Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) - This was named this because it wanted to help countries that were part of the USSR.
- Organization of American States - Helping out the western hemisphere.
- African Union (AU) - African states, repalced earlier organization called Organization of African Unity. This new organizatino placed more emphasis on promoting economic intergration in Africa
- Commonwealth - Mainly British and British colonites, seek economic and cutural cooperation.

## Terrorist attacks gainst hte United States
- Terrorism is the systematic use of violence by a group calculated to create an atmosphere of fear and alam amoung a population or to cerce a government into actions it would not otherwise undertake or refrain from actions it want to take. \<yapping frr fr>

Distinct Characterists:
    
    - Bombing, kidnapping, haijacking, taking hosteages, assassiantion
    - violence as a mean of publicity 
    - cause they d not hesitate to attack knownly that htey will probably die in the act 
  
Differences from assassinations and other types of offenses: it is targed towards many other peopel and not traged to a signle people. 

### Terrorism against americans
There are many terror attacks against many people in order to acheive a goal. There are also people who bomb themselves. 

### 9/11 2001 attacks
Most most dramatic terroits attacks against US. Many airplanes were hijacked and two hit the World Trade Center 

## Terrorist Organizations

### Al-Qaeda 
Osama Bin Laden: Leader. He declared war against the united states. This organization was the one who organized the 9/11 attacks been in Iraq. It is not a single nied organization, and the number of peopel invloved in Al-qaeda was unkown. 

### Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL)
Originated in 1999 and became an affliate of Al-Qaeda in 2004, two org split because lack of agreement. Members of Islamic Statte are Sunni Muslims who seek to impose strict religous laws throughout Southwest Asia.

### Boko Haram 
Initially, they wre peaceful, but now they have been using terrorist tactics after some government decided to break out of prison after imprisonment.

## State Supported Terrorism

### Sanctuary for terrorits

Some Countries are known for provingind sanctuary terrorists, including Afgan, and Pakistan. 2001, Afgan provided safety for al-Qaeda from the Taliban (Leaders of Afgan atp).

### Supplying Terrorits

#### Iraq 
The United States led an attack against Iraq in 2009 in order to espose Saddam Hussein, but failed. US Assertion that Hussein had weapons o mass distruction (but this was a hoax <=ALLEDGELY)

#### Iran
The united States accused Iran of harboring al-Qaeda. US and ost other coutnires have opposed Iran's agressive develoent of Nuclear program but other countires have evdience it is indented o develop weapons.

### State Terroits attacks: Libya

Libya has been  an active sponsor of terroirts attacks. Examples include 1986 bombing, Pan Am 103, UTA 772 Libya's long time leader Muammar elqaddafi reounced terrorism and provided compensations for victoms of Pan Am 103